---
title: Welcome
description: Quick intro to me and my work
post-image: ../assets/images/Intro-Blog-Icon.png
tags:
  - introduction
  - career
  - engineering
  - ai
giscus_term: "3"
---

Greetings! I'm Matthew Hambrecht, a Software Engineer focused on systems programming and AI infrastructure. I’m interested in performance-critical systems, efficient resource utilization, and building software that behaves predictably under load, particularly in AI infrastructure applications.

In my work, I focus on AI infrastructure and performance systems programming to develop and deploy high-performance scalable solutions. I'm currently a Software Engineer working with the talented team at [Patapsco.AI](https://patapsco.ai/), an AI infrastructure start-up, and prior to that, I was a Software Engineer at [SealingTech: A Parsons Company](https://sealingtech.com/), where I worked on the [Operator X](https://www.sealingtech.com/software/operatorx/) AI platform for defensive cyber operations. 

I recently graduated from the University of Maryland, Baltimore County with a B.S. in Computer Science. Before that I've been a hobbyist programmer on and off for over a decade, building projects in various languages and domains.

As I've grown in my career, I've noticed that I've neglected to do as much learning and developing for fun as I used to, and I want to change that. This blog will be a place for me to share insights, projects, and experiences from my journey as a Software Engineer, with a focus on topics surrounding AI infrastructure and performance systems programming and will also include more general software engineering topics and personal reflections on my career and the industry. By having a public facing blog, I hope to hold myself more accountable to making time for learning and development outside of work, and to share my passion for software engineering with others in the community.

Some recent personal projects include:

- **[Eaql](https://github.com/matthambrecht/eaql)**: A domain-specific query language that translates structured, English-like syntax into SQL via a custom recursive-descent parser and transpilation pipeline, designed to explore language design, parsing theory, and query abstraction.

- **[Mailbox](https://github.com/matthambrecht/Mailbox)**: A C library for interprocess communication (IPC) built on POSIX shared memory and semaphores, designed for low-latency, high-throughput message passing between processes with minimal synchronization overhead.